---
layout: post
author:
title: "The best free to air TV shows out there"
date: 2022-02-1 0:01:11 +1100
tags: tv
categories: life
permalink: "/life/tv"
---

This is a list of TV shows and serials I've watched. It's not a difficult list, as there aren't too many entries.

I'm an advocate for using resources that you can get for free. I'm fine with paying for things that are necessary, but entertainment and shows on free-to-air TV is something that makes my day already. I used to record the TV shows I enjoyed watching every day, to watch them over dinner. Nowadays, I just watch whatever's on during dinner, which is usually the news.

<h4>ABC</h4>

I mainly watch news on the ABC. Commercial-free, no sensationalist / useless stories, positive community-based stories on the ABC VIC 7pm bulletin and the option for nationwide news on ABC News 24 if I'm having dinner outside that time.

I also watch other shows on the ABC. Spicks and Specks reruns, Doctor Who reruns and Sherlock reruns have been my favourites. A bit of Father Brown, the occasional royal documentary caps it off.

On ABC KIDS (on channel 22, which they used to share with ABC comedy), some of my favourites from the past included Octonauts, Fireman Sam, Thomas & Friends / TTTE, Shaun the Sheep, Ben & Holly's Little Kingdom and Arthur. Out of these, the only one I've watched relatively recently (though not in the past year) is Arthur. It's just such a wholesome, innocent show.

<h4>SBS</h4>

I like the SBS too. I've been watching Mastermind on the SBS during their weekdays slot from 6pm to 6:30pm for maybe a year and a half. Not every day obviously, but whenever I get the chance to watch TV during that time. I usually tune in for SBS World News at 6:30pm after that.

I love the documentaries on the SBS. Whether the hosts are travelling the world, looking at Flinders St Station. Also they broadcast the cycling on SBS. Not a massive fan but don't mind watching it.

<h4>Channel 7 and Channel 9</h4>

I watch sport on the commercial channels. Australian Open tennis on Channel 9, Cricket on Channel 7. It's still kinda weird tho - I'm still used to 'Wide World of Sports' on 9 encompassing the cricket. Tennis on Channel 9 has been a good transition though. Footy occasionally on Channel 7.

Quiz shows. Other than Mastermind, I've been watching Pointless in the mornings on 9 during the 2021/2022 summer break. I love how the show is just different to all other quiz shows, but is still stimulates' the audiences' mind. Shows I've watched for years and years are The Chase (Channel 7, 3 to 4pm weekdays) and The Chase Australia (Channel 7, 5 to 6pm weekdays). In my opinion, The Chase Australia questions have gotten easier and easier. Not as easy as Tipping Point on Channel 9 though. I don't like the whole counter thing on Tipping Point, and the questions are not challenging. I don't mind Millionaire Hot Seat on 9, but I still don't get how it works. I used to watch Million Dollar Minute on 7 as well, before it was cancelled. Finally, there's Hard Quiz on the ABC which I like. I don't watch it regularly, but when it's on, it's good to have a quiz show where there's no money involved and where things aren't taken as seriously.

<h4>Channel 10</h4>

Yeah I don't watch The Project, Survivor, the Bachelor or Friends. I do like Have you been paying attention? but I get the highlights of that off YouTube.