---
layout: post
title: "Elvis - a brief review"
date: 2022-06-29 0:49:11 +1100
tags: movies
categories: life movies 
---

Elvis was good, but not a film I'd watch a second time. I watched it on the day of its Australian premiere in a catered screening, and it gave me a good, albeit slightly inaccurate, insight into the life of The King of Rock and Roll. It's good to see a series of musical biopics including Rocket Man and Bohemian Rhapsody come out in recent years.

Austin Butler was amazing. He sang everything sounded better than the king himself I reckon. The film was kinda like classic Baz Luhrmann vertigo inducing transitions and scenes as well. I thought it was a bit lengthy though the end sped up a bit. The conclusion felt a bit rushed, but at least it mentioned his death, unlike BoRap (I think). Having said that there was no scene of him in the bathroom after falling off the toilet.

Tom Hanks was great as well. The film did ok in painting him as the villain, but I didn't see Colonel Parker as a baddie because I felt he was never humanised. To be a worthy villain, I feel you have to show both sides of the character well enough. 

A big meme to come out of the film was Austin Butler's film. One of the people I watched the film said that he used method acting, which meant he would stay in character outside of filming as well. She's an actor who has starred in shows airing on the SBS, and said that method acting was never encouraged because it would play on the actor's mind.