---
title: "Some of the books I've read and enjoyed"
description: "Some of the books I've read and enjoyed"
pubDate: "Jan 31, 2022"
heroImage: "../../assets/books.jpg"
---


When I was younger, I was really into reading books. Then it kinda waned. My reading dwindled towards the latter half of high school, except for a spike in Year 12. Lockdown gave me time and energy to read again, which was great. This is an incomprehensive list of books I enjoyed reading.

- Zac Power. I read like all the books including the specials.
- The Legends and Anniversary Legends series. These were about kids partaking in interschool sports. This series brings back many memories.
- Foul Play. Don't know who wrote it. But it has stuck with me as a book I remember nothing about except for its title and that it scared me a lot.
- Rainbow Magic. I was the only boy who read these books at my primary school. I read like all 50 that were published when I was in primary school.
- Geronimo Stilton
- And then there were none (this frightended me very much)
- Enid Blyton books: Famous Five + Secret Seven + Five Find Outers + Naughtiest Girl. I was obssessed with these for a few years
- Paul Jennings books such as Just Kidding, Just Amazing and other short storeis
- Emily Rodda. I read all three Deltora Quest series. These fantasy books shaped my childhood. I also read the Three Doors trilogy books by her.
- Bridge to Terabithia and Tuck Everlasting I read for a school extension program. Both books stick with me to this day because I actually studied them during the very formative primary school years.
- Molly Moon
- Jackie French books such as Hitler's daughter and Refuge shaped me. When Hitler Killed Pink Rabbit by Judith Kerr also shaped me
- Roald Dahl books - basically all of the kids ones. His autobiographies Boy and Going Solo also stick with me. I also read Henry Sugar and other short stories.
- Harry Potter - the order I read these books was 2, 7, 3, 4, 1, 6, 5. I used to know the exact order 100%. I will never again be able to say for certain what the exact order is anymore. 
- The Hobbit. I got this before my 9th birthday and really enjoyed it.
- The Lord of the Rings. I got these for my 9th birthday and it took me a year to read. I finished The Return of the King on my 10th birthday.
- Sherlock Holmes. I read the entire suite during primary school.
- Jane Austen. I read Sense and Sensibility when I was 11 and Pride and Prejudice when I was 17. I want to reread S & S honestly. I started but didn't finish Emma.
- Brontes. Wuthering Heights (Emily) and The Tenant of Wildfell Hall (Anne). Started Jane Eyre (Charlotte), will finish later.
- Agatha Christie's detective novels and series

