---
title: "All the laugh points in Top Gun - plus observations and a review"
description: "All the laugh points in Top Gun - plus observations and a review"
pubDate: "Jun 29, 2022"
heroImage: "../../assets/topgun.jpg"
---


This isn't a traditional review - I don't have much to say about the film that was bad. Instead, this review are the notes I took during my second viewing of the film, including all the points where the audience laughed.

I watched Top Gun: Maverick twice with two different groups of friends. The first was last Wednesday, 22nd of June in IMAX. It was unfortunately not in film, but 4k Digital is good enough. I watched it again on Friday.

I hadn't watched the original Top Gun before, but I had read the synopsis before watching it in IMAX, which helped me understand some of the references in the film. Watching it a second time in cinemas, something I've never done before, also helped me understand the film a LOT better.

I didn't check my watch once during the first showing of the film, which is rare for me. In my second viewing, I took notes on my phone of all the laugh points and other scenes I found interesting. 

Overall, I would say nothing really went wrong in the film. It felt like each complication was not majorly disruptive to the odds of survival of the mission and the characters. This isn't a bad thing - in fact it felt like the film that kept on giving - when would it end? It also gave massive old film vibes - perhaps nostalgic for older audiences as well. 

Finally, who is the enemy country? I just assumed it was Russia for no good reason - I have close to zero background in geopolitics. [This writer says it's Iran in this fascinating read.](https://www.theringer.com/movies/2022/6/3/23151745/top-gun-maverick-enemy-country)

**Laugh points in Top Gun: Maverick**
- Maverick pretending to break up over the intercom in his Mach 10 attempt
- 'put that in your Pentagon budget' after achieving Mach 10
- Maverick being alive after exploding
- 'Where are you from?' Earth
- Despite your best efforts you refuse to die
- request to lower the hard deck after instruction from general
- test tomorrow. They only told us today (only I laughed at this. typical Latin class)
- 'it's a nice moment. Let's not ruin it' (Iceman and Maverick)
- Pete jumping out of window. Juxtaposed with 'Just don't break her heart again' from the daughter.
- 'just wave and smile' (boys) when in the planes posing as the enemy

**Some observations and nice quotes**
- There is one woman in the training team. I did notice the quote 'Buy some time for those MEN up there'. This is probably intentional I would say. Out of touch?
- 'Don't think, just do'
- Rooster and Maverick 'How long can you go'
- 'best pilots in the world'...'they've been told that their whole lives'
- 'and how to come home'...'they've accepted a risk'
- free drinks if you disrespect a woman
- Val Kilmer who plays Iceman in both the OG and Maverick actually had throat cancer. So his speaking struggle is legitimate. But, unlike the film, he hasn't passed.
- Nike football product placement
- Beach scene. No comment.
- sad moment. 'Why should he resent her too?' referring to Rooster's mother. Maverick's paternalism.
- Pete is immediately replaced after Iceman dies. Iceman was his advocate.
- why does the plane flip upon reaching apex? Does it make it easier to go down again?

**Memes from the film**
- Miles Teller's moustache
- beach scene
- Great Balls of Fire