---
title: "Tips and tricks to parking at the Alfred"
description: "Tips and tricks to parking at the Alfred"
pubDate: "Oct 27, 2023"
heroImage: "../../assets/alfred.jpg"
---

Image credit: https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:The_Alfred.jpg (Alfred Health)



I am placed at the Alfred Hospital for Year 3B medicine, and so have had to consider my transport options to the facility where I am undertaking placement and lectures.

The commute to university (at the hospital) is one of the considerating factors on where I would prefer, especially since I am living at home. The Alfred Hospital is around 50-60 mins away by public transport during peak hour. Driving takes around 45-50 minutes mid-week and 35-45 minutes on Mondays and Fridays.

**Pros and Cons of the mode of transport**  

_Pros of Driving_
- Faster whatever time I go to the hospital
- - possible exception at 7:30am on a Wednesday morning during the middle of Winter
- - in the morning peak, 45-50 minutes compared to 50-55 minutes by PT
- - in the afternoon peak, 40-45 minutes compared to 60 minutes+ by PT 
- More comfortable, can take more stuff
- can usually find free parking

_Pros of PT_
- compared to fuel, is $1 cheaper per day
- might have to pay for driving parking, and might have to walk further
- can do things on the buses

You can probably tell which mode I prefer.

**Where to Park at the Alfred**  
There are a number of options for parking at or near the Alfred.

*Paid Parking*
- $15 Student Fare in the Underground / Multi level Car park, located on the hospital grounds. This carpark fills up at around 9am, after which you will need to wait 15 minutes for a spot. By 3pm, it should start clearing out.
- around $1.10 an hour P parking on the road behind the hospital (near Wesley College)
- around $7.70 daily parking (Wilson's) near the tennis courts, slightly further south along Punt Road

*Free Parking*
If you don't want to pay for parking, there is free parking on either Commercial Rd, Greville St or Charles St.
- Commercial Road / High St (after 9am/9:30am city-bound, get in at 8:55am/9:25am to bag a spot, and before 4:30pm suburb-bound). Lots of 2P for short stays
- Grattan St and Charles St (mix of 2P and P)
- Parsley St South (P, difficult to find, only got it once)

The times when it is easiest to get free parking here are
- before 7am
- right after 9am when the clearway ends (or 9:30am on High St)
- after 2pm

However, from my experience, if you look for long enough or go for enough, there will be free parking. However, if you are in a rush it may be preferable to sacrifice the money and pay for parking at the hospital.

**Special parking news**  
My friend told me the best place near the city to park, but it's a secret - there is a road about a 5 minute walk from Flinders St which has unlimited parking after 3pm on Weekdays.